Now we've created our layout and
we've added some elements onto
our map.
It's looking ready to go ahead
and export it, so let's do that.
First of all, what we're going
to do is we're going to go into
layout, which is next to our
item properties here on the
right, and we're going to resize
our layout to fit the contents
within our layout.
And so it's just going to crop
off all the unnecessary white
background.
So to do that, scroll down to
where it says resize layout to
content and then we can click
resize layout.
And this is just going to crop
out all of that unnecessary
white space.
And now we can go ahead and
export our map.
So to do that, we're going to go
up into the top menu bar and
click on Layout, and then down
towards the bottom we've got
some export options.
We're going to click Export as
image and now we're going to
navigate to the folder that we
created and save our exported
map into our materials folder.
So find that folder intro QGIS,
go into it, go into your
materials folder and then let's
name our layout.
So I'm just calling it Ziama
landscape layout and just
underneath you can choose what
kind of file type you want to
save it as.
So there's lots of options, but
I'm going to stick with JPEG and
now we can click save and this
is going to bring up our export
options.
And so here we can choose things
like export resolution.
This is at 300 which is normally
pretty good.
It normally should be around 200
to 300.
We also have options for the
page width and heights and we
can keep enable anti aliasing
on.
This is just a visualisation
effect that makes lines appear
less jagged, so we'll keep that
on and then we'll hit save and
that's going to export our
files.
So now you could go into your
File Explorer and find where you
saved it to in your materials
folder.
Or we can also click the link
that we have up here at the top.
So let's click that and this
takes us to our materials
folder.
We can see our Ziama landscape
layout, so let's click on this
and there we go.
That's our exported map.
And so that's how to export your
layout in QGIS.